So let's look at the HTML and
ensure that this is correct.
I actually have no idea if this
is going to be correct or not.
I put this in here because there
should have been an error, but
I may have actually programmed it correct,
I'm thinking I know I
programmed it by accident.
All right, so let's see.
What do we got here?
Well, okay, I mean, that is all correct.
Our form is all correct.
So I think what I was supposed to do is I
supposed to forget to do the old HX swap
on the outer, and then we'd start having
forms embedding themselves within it.
It creates no actual problem,
it's just inside,
I just I don't want potential problems,
right?
I don't want the occasion for a problem,
so I goofed up there and now look at us.
Just disappoint.
All right, so
I actually programmed something correct.
I knew it was going to happen,
I just knew for
a fact I'd do it correctly when I
wasn't supposed to do it correctly.
All right, there's all our code,
lot of code here, lot of stuff.
By the way,
I threw this in here at the end.
Sometimes when I'm testing I'll just
throw a little test block in here,
I'll highlight it red,
put it like a big red block.
So I can kind of see where things are
going, if I want to just test like when
I was just learning I found
this to be super useful.
So I'd highly recommend that also
another kind of super useful thing.
If you're just kind of new and you're
trying to discover what is going on in
HTMX, what available stuff it has I
suggest turning on HTMX.logall, and
when you execute that,
when we add another contact,
you'll see that it does a whole
bunch of stuff right here.
It has, let's go all the way up to
the tippy top, we have the trigger,
what triggered it.
We can listen to that.
So we can listen to the trigger
that started some HTMX event.
We can listen to a confirmed case.
We can say validation case on
a validation case on this one.
We can add in a config request,
validate URL before request, before send,
then it does all the XHR stuff, and then
afterwards we have a before swap event.
Notice that we actually
used the before swap event.
If you go back to right here, that's
where we did this whole DOM listener.
Before we swap in the content, let's make
sure that we can respond to error codes in
a way we want to respond to error codes.
And so, there is quite a bit of stuff
that you can actually respond to.
And including every single element
that got cleaned up also goes
through this before clean up element.
So you can actually really go in there,
and
you can really be quite expressive
with what you would like to do.
You just don't have to.
If you don't want to, that's fine.
There's also after swap, after request,
after load, after settle,
meaning that everything has
been replaced on the DOM,
there's no more delays, all the throttles
or everything are all done.
Here you go,
we're in a new finish state, so
then you can do something
else at that point.
You can add a set time-out and
then close your module.
I'm not a big fan of module or modalities,
however you want to pronounce it.
I think that's like a North coast
versus West coast pronunciation issue.
North Coast being Montana,
greatest state in the union.
All right.
>> Question from the chat,
is Echo handling the HTML
serialization with c.render.
>> Okay, so is Echo handling
the HTML serialization with render?
So I'm not super familiar with Echo, but
effectively what is happening when you do
a dot render,
it calls your renderer's render function.
So remember at the very beginning of the
class, we have this function right here,
renderer.
And so
it will call that function with a name,
a data, a context, and
then where to write that value to.
And so that way when we execute
the template, it produces a string, but
that string instead of just returning
you the string of the template,
instead it writes that
string into the writer.
The writer is supposed to be a nice,
efficient way so
you don't have to have nearly
as much memory allocations.
Maybe it has a nice large buffer.
There might be a way to pre-configure how
much underlying starting memory a writer
starts with I have no idea,
but that would be fantastic so
that way you know you could have some
nice some delicious efficiencies there.
But when you call render notice
that we do a pass in a string and
we pass in some data, if we go back up to
the top, notice that we get a name and
we get a piece of data that is if for
those that
are the go uninitiated interface squirly
is effectively any in TypeScript.
It's not any, but
you can imagine it's any.
Easiest way to put it,
it just says, hey, it's a type.
I don't know, go figure it out yourself.
So there you go.
So yeah,
that's all that happens right there.
I don't really understand exactly
what happens underneath the hood, but
I know most of that happens.
You can use any now but okay, so for
those that are talking about gov,
that any is completely
different than a TypeScript?
Any, okay.
It's not even the same, it's more
like a template t than it is in any,
that's just ridiculous.
Don't be ridiculous.
All right, let's get back to HTMX.